Hello, today I'm going to go over what it takes to make about $3,000 a month in passive income using dividend stocks. Stick around, I'll go through a sample portfolio and show you exactly what it looks like and at the end I'm going to tell you how much money it would take to have that type of portfolio. Good afternoon, my name is Adam Kahn and I'm The Rational Investor. Today is Tuesday, October 7th, I hope you're all doing well, I'm enjoying the beautiful weather here in Las Vegas, as I've mentioned before that's part of why I live here, it's really awesome out here. Now before I forget, do me a favor, hit that subscribe button if you haven't already, smash the like button, make some comments, let me know what you guys think of the portfolio I'm presenting and what you think of the economy and the stocks and real estate and everything else, I love to talk this stuff. I also really appreciate you guys hitting the like button and the subscribe button, that's what helps YouTube's channel recognize that people are enjoying the content, so if you are, I really do appreciate that and that helps other people find the channel as well, which is really what I hope, because I hope to be able to teach people some of the things that I've learned over the past, I don't know, 30-40 years, you know, I've been doing this since I was a young kid. Now keeping that in mind, I've opened an account at SoFi with my son, who's only 13 years old, and I've been using that to teach him about this stuff as well. I'm going to put a couple links in the description on how to open an account at SoFi, there's one for opening a checking and savings account, another that helps with opening a stock account, if you guys deposit $10 or more, they'll give you a free $25, super cool and I appreciate the support, it gives my son a little bit of a gift and he gets really excited about that, so thanks again. So the account that I have set up has a total of 14 stocks in there, it's a combination of high-paying dividend stocks, regular, in my mind, paying dividend stocks, as well as some high-paying exchange-traded funds, or what people refer to as ETFs. I'll go through the whole list, I might make some comments on a few of the stocks, I'll try not to ramble too long, some of them I really like, some of them are coming out with earnings soon, one of them, Devon Energy, which I'll get to, came out with earnings today that were a little bit rough, but to be fair, I really don't pay too much attention to whether the stock goes up or down, I rely on those dividends to come in and pay monthly payments. The stocks are in alphabetical order, and again, I'll go over the amount of shares, how much that pays per year, and then the total investment that that takes to get that type of return. It averages out to just a little over $3,000 a month. By all means, you guys need to do your own research, don't follow me, because some of the stuff I show, I probably wouldn't put so much into some of them, because it's taking on a little bit too much risk, from my vantage point, which is why you need to do your own research as to what you're comfortable with, but it's to try to produce a little extra income and try to push the limits a little to get a higher return. That being said, I wouldn't be comfortable with other people following what I do, I would really feel much more comfortable with you doing your own research, if you have some questions, feel free to ask, it has to be in line with the amount of money you're investing, your total portfolio, and things like that. So let me get started. One of the stocks that I have in there is Best Buy, I have 500 shares of Best Buy, I really like retail right now, I think they're out of favor. If you own it for a year, with the dividend that it's paying currently, you'll get about $1,840 on 500 shares. That's one of the stocks that it's not one of the higher dividend paying ones. But as mentioned, I really like retail right now, because it's out of favor. And I think some of that is inexpensive in my mind for the companies that you're buying. So Conagra Foods is another stock that I put in the portfolio. If you have 600 shares of Conagra Foods for a year, you should get about $840 for that year. Now keep in mind, dividends aren't guaranteed. So when I'm telling you what the payment is, that's based off of what it paid last quarter, and what's expected to be paid. But at the same time, if they have a bad quarter, bad year, earnings are rough, they could lower or cut the dividends completely. So you have to keep in mind, it's not a guarantee. This is just what they're paying currently. So the next stock in the account that I have is Cracker Barrel. I like Cracker Barrel, reminds me of traveling cross country, stopping in that store, buying like candy sticks and stuff. I have 200 shares in this account. The 200 shares over the year should make $1,040. And again, Cracker Barrel is just kind of near to my heart. They've had a rough time. The reality is, hopefully that dividend sticks around. It's a pretty high dividend, which tells me people see a bit of problems and the stock's been struggling. But you know, if things work itself out and the economy is doing okay, people keep going to Cracker Barrel. I guess we'll just have to wait and see. Now I know I mentioned in the beginning of the video, Devon Energy, they came out with not so great earnings. I'm waiting for tomorrow to see if they confirm the dividend is the same or if they end up cutting it. But with 500 shares of Devon Energy, it pays, I think, 49 cents a quarter right now. So it's expected to make $980 for the year. They're expected to do a conference call in the morning. So I guess I'll find out if they stick with that. One of the exchange-traded funds is a JP Morgan one that I have. I actually have two of them. I have both JEPI and JEPQ. JEPI is the first one. It's an S&P fund that sells calls against the stocks that it has. 800 shares of that should produce about $3,445 over a year. And then with JEPQ, if you have 600 shares, it has a little bit higher of a dividend, a little bit more risk because it's to the NASDAQ stocks. And it's expected to pay $3,007 over a year's time for 600 shares. Kraft Heinz is another stock that I like. To be perfectly honest, I wish I picked up a little bit more. Thing is, it really doesn't move a whole lot, but it's out of favor as well. And on 200 shares, which is all that I have in the account, it pays about $320 is what's expected for the year. I just like that, in my mind, it's come down a good bit and it's inexpensive. It's been out of favor for a little while as well. The next stock I'm going to talk about, I've talked about in a bunch of my other videos. I've definitely laid into it heavier than I probably should, especially for the size of the account overall. It's Nexterra Energy Partners, but the stock fell from like $80 to $20. Maybe there's some real problems, which is why I say it's taken on a little bit more risk than one probably should. And why I reiterate, really don't follow the advice I give. This is just stuff that I have. You guys need to do your own research for what you're comfortable with. I really wouldn't advise somebody to put in this much, but I have 3,000 shares of Nexterra Energy Partners, partially because if the dividend is able to be continued, that makes over $10,000 a year. The news that was so bad is that they're not supposed to be able to grow the dividend as quickly as they planned to originally. So if I can get $10,400 a year on the stock, that's a great return. But I do know I'm taking a little bit more risk than I should be to have that. I also picked up 1,000 shares of Pfizer stock. That'll pay $1,640 over a year. Pfizer as well has also been a little out of favor in the healthcare department. I think after COVID, they got a big run-up because of the vaccines, and maybe they got a little overpriced. Now they seem to be reversing the other way. I like the dividend it's paying. They've lowered their estimates on earnings. But I think even with those estimates that they've made, that it's not a bad value here. So that's why I really like Pfizer. And then one of the other exchange-traded funds that I carry is Virtus InfraCap US Preferred Stock, which ticker symbol is PFFA. Similar to NextEra Energy Partners, I probably have a little too much of it, but it pays a 10% dividend. And it's preferred stock, so it's a little bit different category than a lot of the other things I have. I have 4,000 shares of it, and it should pay about $7,900 a year. Now keep in mind, I don't share any of this information because I'm bragging or trying to show off or anything like that. I'm really sharing it so people have an understanding of how much money you need to invest to get the type of return that I'm talking about in the video. I worked a lot of years and saved up the money. I was really fortunate as a commodities trader. My goal is that I help people start saving and putting away, so they see how much that if they build an account and they're able to put in the dividend stocks, then maybe you with a little bit of research, you guys can have some income coming in to help offset your bills. So anyway, that was that next one. The next one in the account, its ticker symbol is RC, or Ready Capital Corporation. If you own it for a year, it should pay, sorry, 850 shares is what I have. And it pays $1,224 based on its current dividend. Pretty good return, a little bit higher risk, which dollar wise, it's not a huge fit in my portfolio. And same with the next one. I only have 200 shares of RYD, which pays $388 per year, which is pretty high return for the dollar amount invested, which is why I don't put too much. The next stock that I have in there is Black & Decker or Stanley Black & Decker, which is similar to Best Buy. It's not high paying dividend, but it's a company I really like and their earnings are doing really well. And I just don't see them having huge ups and downs with the economy being better or worse. They actually came out with pretty good earnings, but I have 300 shares and that pays $972 over a year. And then the last one in the account, which I talk about all the time because it's one of my favorites. I think it's really undervalued, but again, do your research. This is just my opinion. I just like the company. I have 550 shares of Target in the account as well. And if you hold the 550 shares over a year of the Target, based on the dividend it's paying right now, that should be $2,420. Now Target's coming out with earnings soon, same with Best Buy. I'm kind of excited to see how they do. I'm hoping it's better than what's expected. And I'm hoping with the holidays coming up, same thing, that they're doing pretty well despite the media with the higher interest rates and the economy slowing down and everything else. My hope is that they have really good earnings. They maybe give a forecast that things are slowing down, which has been the rhetoric of everybody, but maybe it's not as bad as the media makes it sound. Anyway, in total, that pays a little over $36,000 a year. So long as those dividends hold up and nobody has to cut their dividends or lower them. My real hope is over time, like the Best Buys and the Stanley Black and Decker and Target, I'm hoping they're actually able to raise their dividends over time if they do well. Generally, the exchange-traded funds, they typically stick with what's there. They don't always raise their dividends the same way. But in total, the account value, you need to put in about $450,000 to get that type of return. Now if you wanted safer return, I'd expect to look for dividends that pay 2%, 3%, 4% because that gives a little more leeway for them to be able to increase that over time. And it's probably more reasonable for not taking too much of the cash flow of a company. Again, like I said, I kind of push a little hard for the dividends because I'm a dividend junkie. And if you find companies with lower dividends and better growth potential, I think in some ways you probably get better overall return. I just worry that the ups and downs of the economy, if I need some of the money, that the emotions of that, maybe I sell at the wrong time because I get uncomfortable. Whereas if I just have the checks coming in, it's not really a decision I have to make. Anyway, one more time before I forget, thumbs up, like, subscribe, make some comments. Tell me if you guys have some stocks that you watch. If I don't look at them, I'll be happy to take a look and see if it's something I wanted to add or maybe get rid of something I have to pick it up. There's always more out there. And like I said, I really like the stock market and think dividends are the way to go.