All right. Last week the artificial intelligence company Open A.I. unveiled chat GPT for the A.I. language tool that is fascinating and frightening people around the world. GPT for which is that tool. It can analyze thousands of words of text to create almost anything from coding video games to passing standardized tests. It can even write lawsuits. A.I. technology is developing at a dizzying pace these days even able to recreate voices as CNN's Tony O'Sullivan found out. And we showed it to you last weekend by using using one to dissimilate his own voice in a phone call with his parents. Hi dad. Oh yeah. How are you. Just finished shooting our story here. I'm going to the airport in a while. Oh yeah. Oh you'll come back. I'm back. You know I carry playing this weekend. OK. Well it may seem like fun and games. A.I. technology can even be used to create so-called deep fakes. That's not so funny. Which are like dead digital masks that can replicate the look of just about anyone like this. If you're a pretty good climber I want to see you climb this. Not easy to do with discipline and hard work. I don't know what I'm talking about. It's crazy. Remember that. That was not Tom Cruise even though it looked like him. Some are now raising alarms about how these advances could be used to create and spread misinformation. Our next guest is an A.I. expert and emeritus professor of psychology and neutral science at NYU. He is also the author of the book Rebooting A.I. Building Artificial Intelligence We Can Trust. All right. Welcome Dr. Gary Marcus. Good to see you. Thanks for having me. All right. So Dr. You know more about this technology than most. You've even developed your own versions. So for all of us who are just learning about this whole world of A.I. how does it work in its current form. And why is it that you are concerned about kind of the next level. What could happen next. I think the first thing to understand is it's not as intelligent as it looks. It's mimicking a huge database of things that it's seen before. And it's so huge that an ordinary human being probably can't imagine quite how huge it is. It's billions and trillions of bits of text. And what it's doing is it's pastiche. It's putting them together these little bits without really understanding them which is why sometimes it does weird things like it blamed the Silicon Valley Bank on GPT 5 which doesn't even exist because it doesn't really know how to assemble all these bits of text. So sometimes it kind of gloms together a whole lot of text and sounds really cool. And sometimes it just makes stuff up. And we have to realize even though it looks smart it's just making stuff up. Maybe it shouldn't be called artificial intelligence but something else. So you wrote an article in The Atlantic this week. You know we talked about how bad actors could manipulate the power of these A.I. tools to spread misinformation. And I guess you know what are the degrees of your worry about this. Because you know is there is there going to be a point where it's going to be difficult to differentiate real thing from a generated if we're not there already. We're we're very close to that point right now. And part of the concern is that bad actors will deliberately use these things to misinform people. So it's one thing to have fun with Tom Cruise and make up having him say something wacky. But you can imagine troll farms in other countries trying to influence our elections. And my single biggest fear is that is that people are going to try to disrupt this democracy by making an atmosphere where we can't really trust anything where when you look at Twitter you look at Facebook you don't know what's true anymore. Because this sheer volume that you can make with these machines you can make millions or billions of pieces of misinformation a day with whatever your own alternative set of facts are. It's incredibly plausible. It has references and data and so forth. It looks really real. And most humans aren't going to be able to tell the difference. And so a lot of people are going to be fooled. A lot of people are going to feel like they can't trust anything. Oh my gosh. And that's my biggest worry. I mean we just came off of it. You know a lot of it is still stuck. You know people who have used the terminology of fake news and you know information and then manipulating it and then people believe it. And now you've got you know this forum these tools that can really help that happen and look even more believable. And people can't discern the difference between real you know and fake. And so you know we have to you know I feel like we may have run into you know this Jurassic Park moment where these A.I. creators are so preoccupied with whether they could. They didn't stop to think if we really should. I think that's exactly right. I actually wrote another essay called the Jurassic Park moment for a I quoted exactly that bit. I keep thinking of Jeff Goldblum saying that in Jurassic Park and how true that moment might be. I'm more concerned about it than I've ever been before in terms of the uses for misinformation in terms of accidental misinformation around health. And ultimately people applying these technologies when they're not really solid yet. Applying them prematurely. Oh my gosh. OK we'll have to keep an eye on it as I know you will. And you have to keep us informed.